those of you who have seen my video and
credit kayak at sea will know that I
mentioned in there some of the problems
you can get on a kayak when you're
fishing at anchor and you get a bit of a
wind / tie situation or wind over across
the tide and those problems are when you
try and fish two rods it's fine wood
with one rod on the one side of the
kayak with the line nice going nicely
down tide when you try and fish a rod on
the other side of the kayak what you get
which I've got a situated that situation
here today you've got one line running
running underneath the kayak and it can
be a bit of a bit awkward apart from
that what happens is instead of the the
bow or the kayak when you get the wind
and tide in the same direction the bow
of the kayak pointing nicely down tide
you get you get a situation where the
kayak is turned broadside to the breeze
and I've got that situation now so what
I thought I'd do as I've got that
situation at the moment it gives a good
opportunity for me to demonstrate to you
what you can what you can do to
counteract that situation all right so
at the moment I've got I've got the
anchor coming out of the stern but as I
said the problem I've got I've got the
tide moving from my left to my right but
I've got the swell or the slight breeze
coming in the totally the opposite
direction from my right to my left from
my right to my left and I said what
that's done it's turned the kayak
broadside sideways on onto the to the
swell now it's absolutely fine today
there's not there's a very very it's
very calm there's a very you know very
small swell but if there was if there
was quite a swell quite chop coming in
that would be very very uncomfortable
for me sitting here with the with the
swell hitting hitting the broadside
sideways on okay so this to
things you can do you can either just
fish the one rod on one side of the
kayak that's the site going going with
the direction of the tide or the other
thing you can do is you can fish I've
got a second rod hold it here what I
could do like it fish two rods on one
side of the kayak and both lines will be
going with the direction the tide but
that's fine from a fishing port of it
but it doesn't count rate the problem
that if this was a bit more choppy how
uncomfortable that would be for me would
it were there with the the swell hitting
me from the side so what I'm gonna
demonstrate is the effectiveness of
using the the drogue the drift chute to
try and counteract the wind over tides
situation so I've got the anchor
deployed at the stern are on the main
anchor trolley which is located on the
right hand side of the kayak and what
I've got I've got a half anchor trolley
on the the other side of the kayak so
what I'm going to do I'm gonna deploy
the drift chute the drogue and maneuver
that to the bow of the kayak and what it
will do it will pick up it'll pick up
the tide and hopefully that will
demonstrate it pulling the starting to
pull it will pull the bow of the kayak
around more into the direction of the
tide that the tides running and more
into the into the swell into the into
the slight breeze okay starting to
starting to pick up the tide now and it
will slowly start to open
okay it's opening up now it's starting
to pick up the tide and already it's
starting to pull the bow of the kayak
I'm hoping you can see that it'll slowly
pull it around more into the direction
of the tide swinging round now
okay brilliant so now what I've got with
the drift shoe the anchor I've got the
anchor now let the stern and I've got
the drift shoot at the bow and what
that's that's done it's now pulled my
bow in in in the same direction as the
tide and into the into the breeze into
the swell and that means that is I can
much much more comfortable for me to
fish the two rods one each side of the
kayak and both lines will go down down
tied down tie beautifully there's only
one thing I will say you've got to be
slightly careful of if the if the drift
chute the diameter of the drogue the
drift chute is quite wide what can
happen it can depend on the strength of
the tide it can start pulling the anchor
so what I do I carry your to drogues to
drift shoes one with a with a much much
smaller diameter so I forget that
situation I can deploy that I have less
pull but it would be enough pull to pull
the bow or the kayak into the direction
of tide without tripping the anchor okay
so that's just a demonstration there of
a wind over tie situation and the
difference things you can do to try and
counteract that as I say now
rather than me being uncomfortable with
the swell hit me broadside I've got my
bow
pulled nicely in into that now and it's
much more comfortable to fish a more cut
more easy to fish two rods so thanks for
watching and hope you found that useful